A Case Study in Applied Algorithm Design
In this article the author describes how an algorithm design was used in the development of a small routine in a software system
Keywords: algorithms, programming, techniques

Numerical Problems (Algorithm Design Manual)
A chapter from the Algorithm Design Manual, by Steven S. Skiena. Specific algorithms: Solving Linear Equations; Bandwidth Reduction; Matrix Multiplication; Determinants and Permanents; Constrained and Unconstrained Optimization; Linear Programming; Random Number Generation; ...
Keywords: Algorithms, Number Theory, Systems of Linear Equations

Great Ideas in Computer Science
Course website with syllabus, newsgroup archive and documents. "This course is designed to help satisfy the general-education mathematics skills or mathematical sciences requirement. The themes of the course are "What is computation?" and "What kinds of things are computable?" You will study ...
Keywords: introduction to computer science

The Stony Brook Algorithm Repository
A comprehensive collection of algorithm implementations for over seventy of the most fundamental problems in combinatorial algorithms. The problem taxonomy, implementations, and supporting material are drawn from Skiena's book; The Algorithm Design Manual ...
Keywords: Algorithms, Combinatorics, Computational Geometry, Cryptography, Fourier Analysis/Wavelets, Graphing of Data, Operations Research, Systems of Linear Equations

Algorithm Design Techniques -- Programming Pearls
The problem arose in one-dimensional pattern recognition: The input is a vector X of N real numbers; the output is the maximum sum found in any contiguous subvector of the input. The problem is when some of the numbers are negative. This column is built around that problem with an emphasis on the ...
Keywords: techniques, programming, algorithms, pattern recognition

An Automatic Algorithm Designer : An Initial Implementation
This paper outlines a specification for an algorithm-design system (based on previous work involving protocol analysis) and describes an implementation of the specification that is a combination frame and production system. In the implementation, design occurs in two problem spaces: one about ...
Keywords: algorithms, design, systems, synthesis, automation, protocol analysis, frames, discovery, problem solving

Before Programming : On Teaching Introductory Computing
In comparison with most other human intellectual activities, computing is in its infancy despite the progress we seem to have made in such a short time. Consequently, there has been insufficient time for the evolution of 'best ways' to transmit computing concepts and skills. It is therefore prudent ...
Keywords: programming, education

Genetically Engineered Architecture: design exploration with evolutionary computation
This book explores design tools based on evolutionary computation (EC), oriented primarily toward conceptual design of architectural and civil engineering structures. EC tools are well suited for exploration in a way which promotes creative design. The multiplicity of solutions generated by EC ...
Keywords: evolutionary computation, genetic algorithm, design, optimization, structures

6.095J Computational Biology: Genomes, Networks, Evolution, Fall 2005 (MIT)
An online course from the MIT OpenCourseWare website (http://ocw.mit.edu) operated by Massachusetts Institute of Technology. This course material is free for anyone to use who accept the terms and conditions of use. The description of this course, published on the MIT OpenCourseWare website, is: ...
Keywords: evolutionary theory, scale-free networks, network evolution, phylogenetics, regulatory motifs, network motifs, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, genome duplication, graph algorithms, gene finding, genome assembly, rapid evolution, sequence alignment, Networks: Gene expression analysis, genome rearrangements, RNA folding, hidden Markov models, Evolution: Comparative genomics, Genomes: Biological sequence analysis, Bioinformatics
Rights: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/