Introduction to C Programming
Computer programming can be both a delight and a challenge, so it is nice to know that there are a number of online tutorials designed to provide information about entering the world of C programming and other such applications. This particular C programming tutorial was created at the University
Keywords: Science, Science -- Technology, Vocational Education, Vocational Education -- Technology

Exercise in Computer Programming / Exercise in Bioinformatics
To introduce basic methods to analyze bioinformatic data, using Pascal programming language.
Keywords: bioinformatics, C programming language, genetic

Using C and Linear ASM
In this module you will learn basic C programming using TI's optimizing C compiler.
Keywords: ELEC 434, Lab 7
Rights: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/

Boolean Numbers
Our C Programming course said a Boolean number was a number that was either true or false. I'm not sure what a true or false number is.
Keywords: Logic/Foundations

Displaying Array Members
Examples of displaying members of an array with for loops and using the sizeof operator within the C++ programming language.
Keywords: array members
Rights: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

Using a Header File for User Defined Specific Task Functions
Concepts and an example of how to create a user library within the C++ programming language.
Keywords: user defined header file, user library
Rights: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/

TTMath / big online calculator
This big numbers library for C++ programming language performs mathematical operations with unsigned/signed integers and floating point numbers.
Keywords: Basic Operations, Exponents/Roots, Logarithms, Trigonometry

Recursion vs Iteration
An introduction to recursion with the alternate method of using a for loop as the solution to a repetitive algorithm. C++ programming code for factorial is included.
Keywords: iteration as alt to recursion, repetitive algorithms
Rights: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

Array Data Type
An introduction to the array data type with some examples in the C++ programming language.
Keywords: array data type
Rights: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

Algebra linear functions in C.
MS-DOS / C programming language. Basic functions (use fractions): addm, subm, multm, powm, smultm, transpose, trace, det, minor, cofactor, mcofactor, adjoint, inverse, gauss, gaussjordan. Elementary row operations: swaprow, multrow, addrow. Useful Functions: printm, prtcopy, printrow, printcol, ...
Keywords: Linear Algebra

CS61C Machine Structures
CS 61C - Spring 2008 - The internal organization and operation of digital computers. Machine architecture, support for high-level languages (logic, arithmetic, instruction sequencing) and operating systems (I/O, interrupts, memory management, process switching). Elements of computer logic design. ...
Keywords: c programming language

Intel C++ Compiler 7.1 for Linux
Software developers in academia and not-for-profit research institutions may find this tool to be helpful for creating applications in the C++ programming language. Intel offers a free C++ compiler for the Linux operating system for non-commercial uses. After completing a brief registration process, ...
Keywords: Computer software

Bit Manipulation in C for TI MSP430 Microcontrollers
Microcontrollers require more bit manipulation than most typical C programs. The intent of this module is to help programmers new to the MSP430 processor get the results they need from C language bit manipulation instructions. Much of this content applies to C programming for many microcontrollers ...
Keywords: ANSI C, bit, bitwise, C, embedded, header, microcontroller, MSP430, truth table
Rights: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/

Computer Programming and Discrete Mathematics: A Learning Community
Created by Patrick and Nannette Bibby at Miami Dade College, this learning community combines courses in Discrete Mathematics and C++ Programming integrating mathematical topics such as set theory, relations, and combinatorics with programming topics such as algorithms, selection structure, and ...
Keywords: Science, Mathematics, Mathematics -- Instructional issues, Science -- Technology, Mathematics -- Applied mathematics

Exercising C language
. This is a virtual online lecture through the Internet . This course is on the C language which is one of the most popular computer language. . As the basis of the C++, Java, etc., C language must be mastered. . All the students of college of engineering, especially those who major in computer ...
Keywords: C programming Language

Reliable Data Structures in C
Cardiff, New Jersey: Plum Hall Inc., 1985. includes index and bibliography. Requires some knowledge of C. It introduces important topics of data structures: arrays, strings, pointers, records, stacks, queues, double-ended queues, trees, hashed files and record files. Discussion of the formal aspects ...
Keywords: programming, languages, C, data structures, techniques, education

C# Computing
Microsoft's C# programming language, which was integrated into the recent Visual Studio .NET release, is the main subject of this instructional Web site. Maintained by the C# Computing company, the site's most useful section is .NET tutorials. There are 21 lessons that provide an excellent start ...
Keywords: Programming languages (Electronic computers), Computer programming -- Programmed instruction., C# (Computer program language), Science, Science -- Technology

Cplusplus: The C++ Resources Network
Despite being introduced in the 1980's, the C++ programming language remains one of the most commonly used languages for a variety of applications. People who are learning the basics of C++, or more seasoned programmers who just need a refresher, can find a great deal of useful information on this ...
Keywords: Programming languages (Electronic computers) -- Computer network resources, Computer programming -- Handbooks, manuals, etc., Computer programming -- Computer 

network resources, C++ (Computer program language).
Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming Using C++
Peter Mueller at the Globewide Network Academy created these lectures to be used in an online introductory course to object-oriented programming (OOP). The tutorial guides users through a survey of programming techniques, an introduction to data types, object-oriented concepts, an introduction to ...
Keywords: Computer programming -- Programmed instruction., Computer programming -- Handbooks, manuals, etc., C (Computer program language), C (Computer program language) -- Programmed instruction., Science, Mathematics, Mathematics -- Technology, Science -- Technology

C# Computing
Microsoft's C# programming language, which was integrated into the recent Visual Studio .NET release, is the main subject of this instructional Web site. Maintained by the C# Computing company, the site's most useful section is .NET tutorials. There are 21 lessons that provide an excellent start ...
Keywords: Programming languages (Electronic computers), Computer programming -- Programmed instruction., C# (Computer program language)

Numerical Recipes in C: The Art of Scientific Computing - Books On-Line
An on-line book available in Adobe Acrobat or PostScript formats that outlines the method of organizing a program, and then provides the methodology and (copyrighted) source code in the C programming language for: linear algebraic equations, interpolation and extrapolation, function integration, ...
Keywords: Computer Science, Fourier Analysis/Wavelets, Linear Algebra, Modern Algebra, Number Sense/About Numbers, Operations Research, Ordinary Differential Equations, 

Partial Differential Equations, Statistics, Calculus (Single Variable)
Application of Modified Perceived Learning Problem Inventory (PLPI) to Investigate Performance in Introductory Programming
Abstract & amp; C Programming has been recognized by universities as a complex and difficult intellectual activity, with students struggling through their first programming subject and educators struggling to teach it. Several universities have embarked on using innovative practices to improve ...
Keywords: Introductory Programming, PLPI, Abstraction

Summer Institute for Computer Science Advanced Placement Teachers (6APT)
The Carnegie Mellon Summer Institute for Computer Science Advanced Placement Teachers (6APT), an NSF funded three year project that delivered integrated instruction in gender equity and the C++ programming language. 6APT integrates gender equity and disciplinary issues for recruiting, pedagogical ...
Keywords: teaching gender equity, advanced placement, AP 